["In some countries, the number of shootings increase becausee many people have guns at home. To what extent do you agree or disagree?", 
"Some people believe that professionals, such as doctors and engineers, should be required to work in the country where they did their training. Others believe they should be free to work in another country if they wish. Discuss both these views and give yourown opinion.", 
"Some experts believe that it is better for children to begin learning a foreign language at primary school rather than secondary school. Do the advantages of this outweight disadvantages.", 
"It is important for children to learn the difference between right and wrong at an early age. Punishment is neccesary to help them learn this distinction. To what extend do you agree or disagree? What sort of punishment should parents and teachers be allowed to use to teach good behaviour to children?", 
"Some people prefer to live in rented homes rather than purchasing their own homes. To what extent do you agree or disagree?", 
"Some people think that economic progress is the only way to end poverty while others believe that it is causing damage to the environment and so should be stopped. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.", 
"Celebrities say media interfere in their private moments while some say that they must face this due to their popularity. Do you agree or disagree?",
"Some people think that all university students should study whatever they like. Others believe that they should only be allowed to study subjects that will be useful in the future. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.",
"Present a written argument or case to an educated reader with no specialist knowledge of the following topic. Nowadays more people are choosing to live with friends or alone rather than with their families. This trend is likely to have a negative impact on communities. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion? You should use your own ideas, knowledge and experience and support your arguments with examples and relevant evidence.",
"In the past employees worked for small businesses but now many are working for large businesses. What are the advantages and dis advantages of this trend?",
"Lots of people in around the world don’t tend to recycle as possible as they could. This essay will discuss the main reasons why this had happened and the foremost effect of the problem.",
"Some people think that families have the most powerful influence on a child’s development, while others think other factors such as television, friend, music. etc. gave biggest effects. Discuss both views and give your opinion.",
"By punishing murderers with the death penalty, society is also guilt of committing murder. Therefore, life in prison is a better punishment for murderers. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?",
"Many work people today work at home rather than in an office. Are there more advantages to working remotely than disadvantages?",
"Early technological developments brought more benefits and changes to people’s life than the recent technological developments. To what extent do you agree or disagree?", 
"Most companies use interviews as the primary method to elect a candidate for a job some people think that this is not the best way Do you agree or disagree ?",
"More and more plastic is polluting in world city, countryside and ocean. What are the problems caused by plastic waste? What measures should be taken solve it?",
"The idea of having a single career is becoming an old fashion. The new fashion will be to have several other career or ways of earning money and further education will be something that continues throughout life. Discuss both views and give your opinion with relevant examples.",
"Many people believe that playing games and watching TV programs is beneficial but for others it does not improve mental ability of children. To what extent do you agree or disagree.",
"In some cultures the old age is more valued, while in other cultures youth is more valued. Discuss both views and give your opinion.",
"Some people believe that history should be taught to children at school. Others however,believe that there are other subjects that are more relevant to children's lives. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.",
"It is generally believed that some people are born with certain talents, for instance for spots or music, and others are not. However, it is sometimes claimed that any child can be taught to become a good sports person or musician. Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.",
"With the rapid advancement of communication technology: smart phones, tablets and other mobile devices, some people believe that the disadvantages outweigh the advantages. To what extent do you agree or disagree?",
"Some people believe that people who read books can develop more imagination and language skills than those who prefer to watch TV. To what extent do you agree or disagree?",
"Some people believe that teenagers should concentrate on all school subjects. But others believe that teenagers should focus on the subjects that they are good at or that the find the most interest. Discuss both sides and give your opinion.",
"The exploration and development of safe alternatives to fossil fuels should be the most important global priority today. To what extent do you agree or disagree?",
"Nowadays, more and more people are finding out about their family history. Why? Is it a positive or a negative development?",
"Today more countries import food different parts of the world. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this trend.",
"Nowadays, more and more people move to live in big cities. Do the advantages outweigh the disadvantages?",
"The crime rate in teenagers has increased dramatically in many countries in recent years. What are the causes, and what are the solutions?",
"In some cities, the government has tried to reduce traffic by adopting measures such as congestion tax during rush hours. Is this a positive or negative development?",
"Some companies sponsor sports as a way to advertise themselves. Some people think it is good while others think there are disadvantages to this. Discuss both side and give your opinion.",
"In order to be successful in sports, some people think you have to be physically strong. Others say that mental strength is more important. Discuss both view and give your opinion.",
"With an increasing number of people eating fast food,which if eating too regularly can cause health issues,some people think that the only solution is to ban it completely. To what extent do you agree?",
"In many countries today, the eating habits and lifestyles of children are different from those of previous generations. Some people say this has had a negative effect on their healthy. To what extend do you agree or disagree with this option. Give reasons for your anser and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.",
"Fewer and fewer people today write by hand using a pen, a pencil, or brush. What are the reasons for this? Is the decline in writing by hand a positive or negative development?",
"There is an increasing amount of advertising directed at children, which encourages them to buy goods such as toys and snacks. Many parents are worried that these advertisements put too much pressure on children, while some advertisers claim that they provide useful information to children. Discuss both views and giveyour opinion.",
"Some people think that introducing new technology can improve people's quality of life in the developing countries. However, others believe that free education should be offered. Discuss both views and give your own opinion.",
"Directors of large organizations are much higher salary than ordinary employees do. Some people think it's necessary, but others are of the opinion that it's unfair. Discuss both views and give your opinion.",
"In the past, people lived in the same place in their life. However, it is common that now people change their place and often live in different places during their life. What are the reasons for this? Is it a positive or negative development?",
"Employment should give their staff at least a 4-week holiday a year to make employees better at their jobs. To what extend do you agree or disagree?",
"People living in large cities have to face many problems in everyday life. What are those problems? Should the government encourage people to move to regional towns? Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.",
"Some people think that girls should take their husband's name after marriage while others feel that they should not follow this age old tradition. What is your opinion?",
"Nowadays tourism generates a significant part of national income for many countries, but it has certain drawbacks too. This essay will examine the advantage and disadvantages of tourism and provide a logical conclusion.",
"Some people think that teachers are no longer needed because students can study via the Internet. To what extent do you agree or disagree?",
"Some people think it is the government's responsibility to pay for the health care and education for their people, while other believe it is not the government's responsibility. Discuss both views and write your opinion.",
"As a result of electronic inventions such as computer and television, people do less physical activities and this is having a negative effect on their health. To what extent do you agree or disagree.",
"The gap between the rich and the poor is increasingly wide, as poor people become poorer and rich people become richer. What problems could this situations cause? what are the solutions to address those problems?",
"More and more people are moving away from an agricultural background to relocate to cities to look for work. What will be the consequences of this? What solutions can you offer?",
"In some countries, people these days spend very little time with their children. What are the causes of this? Whom does this affect more, parents or children?"]